RICK LEVINE: When the ancients
watched the movement of the sun
and the moon and the
wanderers or the planet's
through the nighttime sky,
they were particularly
fascinated with the
one particular cycle
because it was an aberration.
It was it was different
than all the other cycles.
And the cycle that
we're referring to
is the cycle of eclipses.
And eclipses are
an amazing event.
Even in these modern times
when we know what they are,
seeing a total solar
eclipse is something
that one would remember
for the rest of one's life.
The mechanics behind eclipses
have to do with a point
that astrologers map into
a horoscope or chart.
And this point, or
these two points,
are called the
Nodes of the Moon.
The Nodes of the Moon,
or the Moon's Nodes--
sometimes referred to as the
North Node and the South Node,
where the North Node and
South Node of the moon.
These points are not planets.
There's nothing there.
They are not physical.
And yet they are of
extraordinary importance,
not only in the cycle of
eclipses, but in the way
we live our individual lives.
The moon goes around the Earth
in its orbit once a month.
The Earth, meanwhile, is going
around the Sun in its orbit.
These two orbits are
not on the same plane.
The orbits are tilted
to one another,
and so the Moon's
orbit around the Earth
intersects the plane of the
Earth's orbit around the sun.
Think of it almost as two
Frisbees that are together.
That are cut in a spot and
pushed into each other.
And there's a basic
law, an axiom,
of geometry that says when
two planes intersect, they
intersect in a straight line.
The plane, the changing
plane of the Moon's orbit
around the Earth and
the plane of the orbit
Earth around the Sun intersect
to create a straight line.
And that straight
line is notated
by what we call the North Node,
or Ascending Node of the Moon,
and the South or Descending
Node of the Moon.
The Nodes of the
Moon are the places
where the Moon's orbit
intersects the Earth's
orbit around the Sun.
It's such a significant
point that in Hindu
or Vedic eastern astrology
they don't create,
they don't give the
Nodes a lesser position
like we do here in the West.
Deepak Chopra sometimes refers
to the suffering in the West
based upon the superstition
of materialism.
In Vedic astrology, they simply
refer to the Moon's Nodes
as shadow planets.
They're not less than just
because we cannot perceive
them with our five senses.
So what do the Nodes of
the Moon represent and how
do we apply them in our lives?
Well, the Moon's Nodes,
because they're not physical,
do not have physical
manifestation
like planets and signs do
in our lives and our bodies.
The Nodes of the
Moon are associated
with the path of the soul.
You try to put your
finger on them,
and there's nothing there.
The fact is that Nodes
can be considered
to be related to
past lives, if that's
something that you believe in.
If not, you can relate
to your genetic coding.
You can relate it even
to your earlier lives
in this particular body.
The fact is that the Nodes refer
to the trajectory of the soul
through this incarnation
in three dimensions.
The Eastern astrological
tradition looks at the Nodes
as negative.
They're not good.
But it's interesting because
in the Eastern tradition,
the three dimensional world is
considered to be an allusion.
It's not good.
And so anything that attaches
us to three dimensions, anything
that attaches us
to the physicality
would be viewed as a trap.
However, we Westerners place
value judgments on the North
Node versus the South Node.
Incidentally, the
North Node is simply
the point on the
intersection of the Moon's
orbit around the Earth and the
Earth's orbit around the Sun.
It's the point where
the Moon is in its orbit
coming up above the horizon.
And the South Node is where
it's dipping back down
beneath through the horizon.
So we Westerners give the
North Node a value judgment--
and I'm overstating
this-- of good,
and the South Node as a
value judgment of bad.
It's not quite that simple,
but there's a directionality
to this journey of the soul.
The South Node is
where we come from.
The North Node is
where we're heading to.
The South Node may be considered
our past lives and the North
Node considered, perhaps,
this life or even
our future incarnations.
The South Node is considered
to be what we've done.
It's the things in our life that
we're so good at-- whether it
be in this lifetime or in
others-- we're so good at it
that when things get tough
here and now, we snap back
and we do that.
The South Node, in Western
astrology is the trap.
The North Node is
the aspiration.
It's the work.
It's the Dharma that we need to
do to get to where we're going.
To the North Node has the
direction of the future.
The South Node has the
direction of the past.
So by knowing one's Nodes
one can get a sense--
and this is separate
from the life
that we live, the who we are,
the Sun, the how we feel.
The Moon, the how we
think, the Mercury.
The what we like, the Venus.
The how we appear,
the rising side.
The Moon's Nodes
are beyond all this.
They are about our journey on
this planet, in this lifetime.
It's clues to what
we hope to accomplish
and how we hope to make our
soul a better soul by the time
we get to leave.